Welcome to Chess.

Beat your opponent or a computer in order to gain points and improve your 
score.

To see this help menu, you can press F1 and it will show up

Piece Points:

Each piece in chess has a value (labeled below). Take your opponents pieces
to decrease that pieces value from their point value. You can increase your
point value by promoting a pawn.
Pawn - 1 point.
Rook - 5 point.
Knight - 3 point.
Bishop - 3 point.
Queen - 9 point.
The king does not have a point value as it can never be taken.

Scoring:

Winning a game improves your score, and you get a higher score
the harder the bot you defeat and the higher the score of the opponent.
You will also lose points in the same way if you lose.


How to Play:

After starting a game, move the blue square around with the arrow keys or 
'wasd' keys. Press enter to select a piece or to try take a piece.

CHESS RULES:

If you get a pawn to your opponents first rank, the pawn will be promoted into
either a Queen, Rook, Knight or Bishop at the users discretion.

You can castle your king by moving it two spaces right or left, when it has
not moved before, when there is a castle on the corner space on the same side,
and when you will not be putting your kind through check.

If a pawn is moved two spaces and lands nexto your pawn, for the next move
only, you can take that pawn as if it had only moved one space up.

You must stop a check if you are in check (a piece is attacking your king)
If you cannot get out of check, your opponent wins.



PIECE RULES:

Pawn:
The pawn moves directly up for white or down for black. It moves only one
square, except for the first move when a pawn can move two spaces. It takes
the block right or left of where it can move, IE: diagonally, and not forward

Rook:
The rook moves along the horizontals or verticles. It can move up to 8 spaces,
but cannot jump over pieces and takes the piece it lands on.

Knight:
The knight moves one block horizontally and two blocks vertically, or the 
otherway around. It can jump over pieces and takes the piece it lands on.

Bishop:
The bishop moves along the diagonals, IE: it moves the same number of blocks
horizontally and vertically and can travel up to 8 squares. It cannot go over
pieces and takes the piece it lands on.

Queen:
The queen can move like a bishop or a rook, on the diagonals, horizontal or 
verticle line. It cannot jump over pieces and takes the piece it lands on

King:
The king moves like the queen, except that it can only move one block per 
move.